
h1. Arrow

A web application framework for mod_ruby.

h2. Authors

* Michael Granger
* Dave McCorkhill
* Martin Chase

h2. Contributors

* Aaron Son
* Ben Bleything
* Kim Wallmark
* Mahlon E. Smith

h2. General Information

Arrow is a web application framework for mod_ruby. It was designed to make development of web applications under Apache easier and more fun without sacrificing the power of being able to access the native Apache API.


h2. Online Docs

We're working on a manual which will provide more comprehensive instructions and an in-depth tutorial. You can view it at:

bq. "http://deveiate.org/code/Arrow-manual/":http://deveiate.org/code/Arrow-manual/

We'd be happy to hear your suggestions, bug reports, or complaints.


h2. Installation

h3. Requirements

* "Apache":http://httpd.apache.org/  (2.2.x)
* "mod_ruby":http://modruby.net/ (>= 1.3.0)

h3. (Non-Standard) Ruby Library Dependencies

If you use RubyGems, appropriate versions will be installed by the gem's dependencies. Otherwise, you'll need to build and install these by hand:

* ruby-cache
* formvalidator
* pluginfactory


h4. Installing From Source

If you wish to install Arrow as a conventional library from the source:

  $ rake install

The install task will check for dependencies, install the libraries, and then offer some advice about how to configure your server.


h2. Contact

* "Project Page":http://deveiate.org/projects/Arrow
* "IRC":irc://freenode.net/#arrow


h2. Legal

Copyright (c) 2004-2010, Michael Granger

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of the author/s, nor the names of the project's contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
